About the job Ready to do the most impactful work of your career? At Coinbase , we are uncompromising on our mission to increase economic freedom. The bar is high, the environment is intense, and we like it that way. This isn't a place for complacency, it’s a place to be pushed past your perceived limits. If you're ready to build the future of finance alongside people who refuse to settle for "good enough," you belong here. Coinbase is a remote-first, but not remote-only company. Expect to get together quarterly for intense in-person working sessions called “surges.” learn more about working at Coinbase . As the Lead Technical Program Manager for CX Intelligence & AI (CXI), you'll be the embedded program management owner for all of CX, driving cross-functional execution across CX Ops, CX Programs, Product/Engineering, and Analytics. CXI is responsible for transforming Coinbase Customer Support from a reactive operations center into a highly effective, AI-powered support experience that is better for customers and more efficient for Coinbase. You'll create strategies for challenges where the solution is not yet well understood, independently plan programs with dependencies across product groups, and execute complex initiatives that require synchronizing timelines across multiple teams. This role is the connective tissue between CXI's intelligence layer and the engineering and product teams that build the AI infrastructure, and you will own overall project management, comms, status updates, key milestone dates, and cross-functional deliverables. What you'll do: Define a strategic roadmap and partner with Engineering to deliver high-priority initiatives and innovative solutions to CX challenges, while executing ongoing and annual roadmapping for priority programs across multiple product areas and holding the line on quality across product and operational areas. Own a large portfolio of agent tooling and SaaS initiatives spanning AI automation, customer/agent insights, analytics infrastructure, and support channel strategy, including evaluating external vendors for new AI automation solutions to leverage as part of the tooling stack. Independently uncover CX and customer opportunities where neither the problem nor the solution is well understood, and drive alignment with CX and Engineering leadership to shift resources, launch new projects, or cancel existing initiatives by leveraging frameworks and presenting tradeoffs to drive the right business priorities. Own opportunity sizing, define north-star success metrics, and set quarterly targets for shared KRs in partnership with EAA product managers, while managing the source of truth for OKR performance and program reporting to leadership (WBR/QBR). Drive business process documentation to ensure proper change management and rollout of tooling and automation changes across CX. Innovate with technology and drive AI-first solutions across all responsibilities, continuously identifying opportunities to leverage automation and emerging AI capabilities to improve CX outcomes. Required Skills and Experience: 10+ years of experience in technical program management, product/program management, strategy, or related roles within complex, scaled technology environments, preferably supporting CX engineering teams, with prior experience building or materially transforming a CX function at a product-led tech company where automation and AI were central to the roadmap. Proven track record independently uncovering business and customer challenges where neither the problem nor the solution is well understood, creating strategies that span engineering teams, and demonstrated ability to make the call or escalate the need to shift resources, launch new projects, or cancel existing programs, including advising L8+/VP leadership on optimal execution paths and managing push-back. Exceptional program management and execution discipline with the ability to size work, sequence dependencies, manage risk, and ship complex initiatives on time with quantified impact, including demonstrated success owning cross-functional, cross-org program portfolios with high ambiguity and external dependencies (regulatory, vendor, multi-product launches). Fluency with AI/ML systems, automation platforms, data pipelines, and CX technologies, with the ability to leverage technical depth in your area and technical breadth across Coinbase to innovate, improve upon, and simplify technology solutions, combined with comfort working with analytics partners and BI tools (e.g., Looker, Snowflake) to define metrics, interpret trends, and make tradeoffs grounded in data. Experience partnering deeply with Product, Engineering, Analytics, and Operations to translate customer and operational insights into roadmap changes and systemic improvements, with a background spanning multiple CX disciplines (VoC/insights, AI/ML, analytics, QA, content/knowledge management, experimentation, or workforce management) and comfort rotating across them, ideally within fintech, financial services, or regulated industries, with familiarity with Coinbase's products, customer segments, and risk surface or the curiosity to rapidly build that knowledge. Utilizes generative AI responsibly, maintaining human oversight to deliver business-ready outputs and drive measurable improvements in workflow efficiency, cost, and quality. Position ID: P77126 Pay Transparency Notice: Base salary varies by location (see range below). Total compensation may also include equity and bonus eligibility, and benefits (medical, dental, vision, 401(k)). Annual base salary range (excluding equity and bonus):: $212,330 USD - $249,800 USD Application Limit: Candidates may submit a maximum of 3 applications within a 6-month period. Equal Opportunity Employer: Coinbase is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or genetic information. Applicants with criminal histories will be considered consistent with applicable federal, state, and local laws. US Applicants: View Employee Rights , Know Your Rights , and E-Verify Notice of Participation. Accommodations: If you are an individual with a disability who needs a reasonable accommodation, email us your request and contact info at accommodations[at]coinbase.com. Need screen reading technology? Click here to download a free compatible screen reader and view the tutorial . Data Privacy & Arbitration: By submitting your application, you agree to our Candidate Privacy Notice . US applicants: By submitting your application, you agree to Arbitration of Disputes . AI Disclosure: Coinbase is piloting an AI tool based on machine learning technologies to conduct initial screening interviews to qualified applicants. The tool simulates realistic interview scenarios and engages in dynamic conversation. Coinbase is also piloting an AI interview intelligence platform to transcribe and summarize interview notes, allowing our interviewers to fully focus on you as the candidate. Coinbase will not use AI to make decisions impacting employment.