About the job About Lendable Lendable is on a mission to build the world's best technology to help people get credit and save money. We're building one of the world’s leading fintech companies and are off to a strong start: One of the UK’s newest unicorns with a team of just over 700 people Among the fastest-growing tech companies in the UK Profitable since 2017 Backed by top investors including Balderton Capital and Goldman Sachs Loved by customers with the best reviews in the market (4.9 across 10,000s of reviews on Trustpilot ) So far, we’ve rebuilt the Big Three consumer finance products from scratch: loans, credit cards and car finance . We get money into our customers’ hands in minutes instead of days. We’re growing fast, and there’s a lot more to do: we’re going after the two biggest Western markets (UK and US) where trillions worth of financial products are held by big banks with dated systems and painful processes. Join us if you want to Take ownership across a broad remit. You are trusted to make decisions that drive a material impact on the direction and success of Lendable from day 1 Work in small teams of exceptional people, who are relentlessly resourceful to solve problems and find smarter solutions than the status quo Build the best technology in-house, using new data sources, machine learning and AI to make machines do the heavy lifting We’re looking for a Staff PHP Engineer to join our Mexico expansion team, helping to drive us towards the launch of a new mobile finance product that aims to further our international growth. We’re looking for someone based in Mexico who is excited by the idea of joining a small cross-functional product team with a startup mindset, operating within one of Europe’s most successful, profitable fintechs, to support the initial build of a new product offering for this new market. Our ideal candidate is an experienced and resourceful engineer, comfortable building relationships with other established product teams to understand where we can use existing learnings to influence decisions and align on approaches, collaborating with frontend engineers to guide and agree API behaviours and expectations through documented contracts, and working closely with product stakeholders to agree on MVP requirements. Our tech stack We believe in using the right tools for the job, and our stack reflects our commitment to modern, efficient development: Backend: PHP 8, Symfony, AWS, PostgreSQL, RabbitMQ, Docker, Kubernetes CI/CD: Datadog, GitHub Actions and ArgoCD Testing & Monitoring: Behat, PHPUnit for robust automated testing, Datadog for monitoring Productivity: Github, Slack, Jira & Confluence What We're Looking For We're seeking passionate engineers who are excited to contribute and grow with us Must have: Based either Mexico or willing to relocate to Mexico Must have strong English language skills (written and spoken) High degree of ownership and autonomy Strong, business oriented, engineer with modern PHP development experience (PHP 8.0+ is a must). You're fluent in the latest PHP features and best practices. A solid grasp of a modern PHP framework like Symfony or Laravel. Experience with Domain Driven Design, Message-Driven Systems, Event Sourcing and CQRS Excellent automated testing skills (unit, integration, functional) - you believe in quality code. A genuine desire to learn, collaborate, and contribute your ideas within a highly collaborative team. Nice to have: Familiarity with microservices architecture and working on financial systems is a bonus. You have experimented with AI tooling to accelerate your own, and others, productivity, and can discuss the positives and negatives of different approaches and tools Experience in a cross-functional environment. Interview process Short video call with one of our team members to learn more about each other, and answer any initial questions you have about the role Cognitive Assessment Technical session with your peers where you’ll discuss your solution to the exercise, talk through some problems and scenarios, and dig deeper into your technical experience Culture interview to explore your motivations and goals, assess how you could play a part in your team’s success, and better understand how we could help you thrive in your role. Life at Lendable Winning team: the opportunity to scale up one of the world’s most successful fintech companies Flexible working: flexible approach tailored to each role. Hybrid roles require three days in-office weekly; fully remote roles include regular opportunities for in-person connection through socials and off-sites Socials & connection: opportunities and events to come together, socialise, and get to know each other beyond the office walls Health coverage: support for your physical and mental wellbeing, including private health cover Retirement & savings: long-term financial wellbeing through retirement savings plans Employee referral programme: earn a competitive bonus when you refer successful new team members Office meals & snacks: enjoy a fully stocked kitchen, plus complimentary lunches prepared by in-house chefs on in-office days at select locations Sustainable commuting: cycle-to-work and electric vehicle salary sacrifice schemes available in select locations Please note: The availability and details of specific benefits vary by location and role. For more information, please speak to your Talent Partner. Check out our blog !