About the job Responsibilities Kforce has a client that is seeking an AI Automation Engineer in Minneapolis, MN. Summary: Our client is seeking two senior-level AI Test Automation Consultants to support a strategic acceleration initiative and help eliminate testing bottlenecks across multiple enterprise programs. The consultants will work closely with architects, infrastructure teams, and existing automation engineers to leverage AI-assisted testing, improve automation capabilities, and establish scalable testing standards. Responsibilities: Design and implement automated testing solutions using modern automation frameworks and AI-assisted tools Identify opportunities to accelerate testing through AI, automation, and process improvements Support testing efforts for modernization initiatives, vulnerability remediation programs, and Oracle-to-Aurora database migrations Assess current-state testing practices and recommend improvements to increase delivery velocity and quality Develop testing standards, best practices, and repeatable automation processes Mentor internal engineers and provide knowledge transfer to improve long-term organizational capabilities Collaborate with engineering, architecture, and infrastructure teams to reduce release and testing bottlenecks Requirements 7+ years of experience in Test Automation, Quality Engineering, or Software Engineering Hands-on experience with automation frameworks such as Playwright, Selenium, Cypress, and API testing tools Experience implementing or leveraging AI to improve testing efficiency and automation Experience supporting large-scale application modernization, migration, or transformation initiatives Strong understanding of CI/CD pipelines and DevOps practices Strong consulting, communication, and stakeholder management skills Preferred Qualifications Experience with AWS and cloud-based testing environments Oracle and Aurora database testing experience Experience establishing QA governance, standards, and automation strategies Background in performance, regression, and integration testing The pay range is the lowest to highest compensation we reasonably in good faith believe we would pay at posting for this role. We may ultimately pay more or less than this range. Employee pay is based on factors like relevant education, qualifications, certifications, experience, skills, seniority, location, performance, union contract and business needs. This range may be modified in the future. We offer comprehensive benefits including medical/dental/vision insurance, HSA, FSA, 401(k), and life, disability & ADD insurance to eligible employees. Salaried personnel receive paid time off. Hourly employees are not eligible for paid time off unless required by law. Hourly employees on a Service Contract Act project are eligible for paid sick leave. Note: Pay is not considered compensation until it is earned, vested and determinable. The amount and availability of any compensation remains in Kforce's sole discretion unless and until paid and may be modified in its discretion consistent with the law. This job is not eligible for bonuses, incentives or commissions. Kforce is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, protected veteran status, or disability status. By clicking “Apply Today” you agree to receive calls, AI-generated calls, text messages or emails from Kforce and its affiliates, and service providers. Note that if you choose to communicate with Kforce via text messaging the frequency may vary, and message and data rates may apply. Carriers are not liable for delayed or undelivered messages. You will always have the right to cease communicating via text by using key words such as STOP.