Posting: "Test Engineer, System Test at Google"

About the job Minimum qualifications: Bachelor's degree or equivalent practical experience. 3 years of experience in Python. 3 years of experience in system testing and automation testing for embedded products (e.g., phones, SoCs, or similar). Experience in applying AI/ML in test automation, triage, or data analytics. Experience in USB, battery management, power, or thermals on Android devices. Preferred qualifications: Master's degree or PhD in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, or a related field. 3 years of experience in specialized testing such as production testing, system integration testing, etc. 1 year of experience working in a complex, matrixed organization. About The Job At Google, our philosophy is build it, break it and then rebuild it better. That thinking is at the core of how we approach testing at Google. Unlike roles with similar names at the other companies, Test Engineers at Google aren't manual testers -- you write scripts to automate testing and create tools so developers can test their own code. As a Test Engineer, you navigate Google's massive codebase, identify weak spots and constantly design better and creative ways to break software and identify potential problems. You'll have a huge impact on the quality of Google's growing suite of products and services. Pixel Test Engineering encompasses all aspects of pixel products testing. As part of our organization, the System Test team is tasked with producing, monitoring, and maintaining quality signals in functional and non-functional domains of power, thermals, performance, battery charging, and storage for all pixel products, including pixel phones, foldables, hearables, and wearables. The team has also expanded into companion application testing for first party ecosystem products, such as hearables. As a Test Engineer, you will be responsible for designing and developing test strategies, test plans, test cases, test automation, infrastructure, and processes in our test domains, to enable consistent, reproducible test results to serve as quality signals for product teams to evaluate and ready the products for release. In this role, you will have opportunities to work with a team of engineers to develop test strategies, test automation, and positively impact product quality. Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Our Devices & Services team combines the best of Google AI, Software, and Hardware to create radically helpful experiences for users. We research, design, and develop new technologies and hardware to make our user's interaction with computing faster, seamless, and more powerful. Whether finding new ways to capture and sense the world around us, advancing form factors, or improving interaction methods, the Devices & Services team is making people's lives better through technology. Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training. US: $126000 - $180000 (USD) + 15% bonus target + equity + benefits Responsibilities Learn more about benefits at Google . Builds partnerships with stakeholders to drive the development of test strategies for next generation pixel products and features. Deliver consistent test metrics and quality signals to present a comprehensive product quality signal to stakeholders and leadership teams. Identify, prototype, and lead efforts to improve test process, propose new quality metrics, and optimizations of test automation, including leveraging Machine Learning and AI capabilities. Scale existing and new test strategies into new projects and in the market to support seven year pixel updates. Google is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and is an affirmative action employer. We are committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity or Veteran status. We also consider qualified applicants regardless of criminal histories, consistent with legal requirements. See also Google's EEO Policy and EEO is the Law. If you have a disability or special need that requires accommodation, please let us know by completing our Accommodations for Applicants form .