Posting: "PRINCIPAL AGENTIC AI ARCHITECT at TEKsystems"

About the jobDescription PRINCIPAL AGENTIC AI ARCHITECTDuration- 1 year contract100% remoteCannot provide sponsorship : Must be able to work W2** Description Primary Mission Design, build, and deploy enterprise AI agents that solve real business problems. Partner with business SMEs and technology teams to develop scalable AI solutions, establish reusable architecture patterns, and accelerate adoption of AI across the organization. Required Experience Candidates must have demonstrated experience building and deploying enterprise AI agents into production environments within large organizations.Experience with AI agent frameworks, orchestration platforms, and enterprise AI ecosystems is preferred, including technologies such as LangGraph, LangChain, Semantic Kernel, Copilot Studio, CrewAI, AutoGen, Azure AI, OpenAI, or similar platforms. Equivalent experience with other enterprise AI technologies is equally acceptable.Key Responsibilities Design and build production-ready AI agents Translate business needs into practical AI solutions Develop reusable architecture patterns and standards Integrate AI agents with enterprise systems, data sources, APIs, and business workflows Partner with business and technology stakeholders to prioritize and deliver high-value use cases Mentor internal teams on AI agent design and implementation best practicesExpected Deliverables Production AI Agents Agentic AI Architecture Blueprint Agent Integration FrameworkIdeal Background Agentic AI Architect Enterprise AI Architect AI Solutions Architect AI Engineering Lead Principal AI Developer Intelligent Automation Architect Skills artificial intelligence, AI architecture, langgraph, langchain, semantic kernel, copilot studio, crewAI, autogen, azure AI, openai Top Skills Details artificial intelligence,AI architecture Additional Skills & Qualifications none Experience Level Expert Level Job Type & Location This is a Contract position based out of Charlotte, NC. Pay And Benefits The pay range for this position is $85.00 - $98.00/hr.Eligibility requirements apply to some benefits and may depend on your job classification and length of employment. Benefits are subject to change and may be subject to specific elections, plan, or program terms. If eligible, the benefits available for this temporary role may include the following: Medical, dental & vision Critical Illness, Accident, and Hospital 401(k) Retirement Plan – Pre-tax and Roth post-tax contributions available Life Insurance (Voluntary Life & AD&D for the employee and dependents) Short and long-term disability Health Spending Account (HSA) Transportation benefits Employee Assistance Program Time Off/Leave (PTO, Vacation or Sick Leave) Workplace Type This is a fully remote position. Application Deadline This position is anticipated to close on Aug 24, 2026. About TEKsystems We're partners in transformation. We help clients activate ideas and solutions to take advantage of a new world of opportunity. We are a team of 80,000 strong, working with over 6,000 clients, including 80% of the Fortune 500, across North America, Europe and Asia. As an industry leader in Full-Stack Technology Services, Talent Services, and real-world application, we work with progressive leaders to drive change. That's the power of true partnership. TEKsystems is an Allegis Group company.The company is an equal opportunity employer and will consider all applications without regards to race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, veteran status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information or any characteristic protected by law. About TEKsystems And TEKsystems Global Services We’re a leading provider of business and technology services. We accelerate business transformation for our customers. Our expertise in strategy, design, execution and operations unlocks business value through a range of solutions. We’re a team of 80,000 strong, working with over 6,000 customers, including 80% of the Fortune 500 across North America, Europe and Asia, who partner with us for our scale, full-stack capabilities and speed. We’re strategic thinkers, hands-on collaborators, helping customers capitalize on change and master the momentum of technology. We’re building tomorrow by delivering business outcomes and making positive impacts in our global communities. TEKsystems and TEKsystems Global Services are Allegis Group companies. Learn more at TEKsystems.com.The company is an equal opportunity employer and will consider all applications without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, veteran status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information or any characteristic protected by law.San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance: Pursuant to the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance, for all positions located in the city and county of San Francisco, we will consider for employment qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records.Massachusetts Lie Detector: It is unlawful in Massachusetts to require or administer a lie detector test as a condition of employment or continued employment. An employer who violates this law shall be subject to criminal penalties and civil liability.Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI): We may use Artificial Intelligence (AI) to support parts of our hiring process, including sourcing, screening, and evaluating candidates. AI helps assess applications and qualifications, but final decisions are made by our hiring team. By applying, you acknowledge and agree that your application may be reviewed using AI tools.… more