Posting: "AI Automation Engineer - Remote at City of Hope"

About the job Join the transformative team at City of Hope , where we're changing lives and making a real difference in the fight against cancer, diabetes, and other life-threatening illnesses. City of Hope’s growing national system includes its Los Angeles campus, a network of clinical care locations across Southern California, a new cancer center in Orange County, California, and treatment facilities in Atlanta, Chicago and Phoenix. our dedicated and compassionate employees are driven by a common mission: To deliver the cures of tomorrow to the people who need them today. Position Summary: The AI Automation Engineer builds and supports technical solutions to automate and enhance workflows across clinical, research, and business functions at City of Hope. The Engineer partners directly with functional SMEs to map current-state processes, identify automation opportunities, and co-design AI-first reinventions that transform how the work gets done. The Engineer will have an agile, problem-solving mentality and will use automation and AI platforms to deliver secure and reliable solutions. The AI Automation Engineer consults with business stakeholders to design AI solutions across a variety of platforms, engages other data and engineering resources as needed, and applies strong technical skills to solve system and data integration challenges. The ideal candidate will be ready to learn and enhance their skills across our core platform ecosystems and adapt the rapidly evolving technology landscape. This role is at the forefront of new workflow transformation initiatives at City of Hope. ** This is a Fully Remote Opportunity within the United States** As a successful candidate, you will: Design, develop, test, and deploy solutions to automate and enhance operational and clinical workflows (e.g., within revenue cycle, supply chain, patient access, clinical administration).; develop AI agents on within City of Hope’s core platforms; Integrate automation solutions with EHRs, clinical systems, data platforms, and enterprise applications while ensuring secure handling of PHI/PII in compliance with HIPAA and organizational policies. Contribute technical expertise to requirements sessions; clarify requirements; implement changes and ensure alignment with internal policies Monitor, support, and optimize production automations; troubleshoot issues, implement enhancements, and ensure high availability and performance. Collaborate with Data Scientists and ML Engineers to integrate machine learning, advanced analytics, and/or custom AI agents into workflows as required by the business case. Proactively identify opportunities to utilize and integrate existing AI, data, and analytics tools (e.g., HopeLLM) Contribute to automation standards, best practices, documentation, reusable components, and knowledge sharing across the automation and healthcare technology community. Follows established City of Hope and department policies, procedures, objectives, performance improvement, attendance, safety, environmental, and infection control guidelines, including adherence to the workplace code of Conduct and Compliance Plan. Practices a high level of integrity and honesty in maintaining confidentiality. Performs other related duties as assigned or requested. Qualifications - External Your qualifications should include: Minimum Education: Bachelor’s degree; 3 additional years of experience plus the minimum experience requirement may substitute for minimum education. Minimum Experience: 3+ years of experience in process automation, software engineering, data science or related roles. Knowledge of Microsoft Ecosystem, especially AI and Automation Platforms (Power Automate, Azure AI Foundry, Copilot Studio, Document Intelligence) Experience with AI development tools (e.g. Claude, Cursor, Codex, etc.) as well as experience building custom agents, knowledge of agent architectures, skills, tools, evaluation harnesses etc. Programming experience with scripting languages (Python, Bash, PowerShell, C++, or similar languages) Data integration and API standards (REST, authentication, secret/key vault management, etc.) Cloud experience (Azure preferred) and familiarity with DevOps practices Experience working within enterprise governance processes (change management, security reviews, access controls) Preferred Education: Master’s degree preferred. Preferred Experience: Experience working with EHR/EMR systems (e.g., Epic, Cerner) or healthcare data platforms Experience with healthcare databases, data modeling, and SQL Knowledge of healthcare data and workflows such as revenue cycle, patient access, claims, prior authorization, scheduling, or clinical operations Familiarity with healthcare interoperability standards (e.g., HL7, FHIR) Experience with python LLM frameworks (LangChain, LangGraph, etc.) Some experience with business process mapping and RPA software Skills/Abilities: Strong analytical skills Ability to creatively apply a diverse technology stack, including AI agents, SQL queries, and APIs to develop workflow automation solutions Ability to translate business/functional requirements into technical solutions Understanding of security, privacy, and compliance considerations in healthcare IT Self directed with the ability to manage multiple initiatives simultaneously Strong documentation and technical writing skills Software: AI coding and agent development platforms (e.g. Claude, Cursor, Codex, CoPilot Studio, etc.) Cloud platforms (Azure preferred) AI/ML frameworks and services (e.g., Azure AI, Snowflake AI/Cortex) City of Hope employees pay is based on the following criteria: work experience, qualifications, and work location. City of Hope is an equal opportunity employer. To learn more about our Comprehensive Benefits, please CLICK HERE .