Posting: "Software Engineer at Medallion"

About the job About Medallion: At Medallion, we believe healthcare teams should focus on what truly matters - delivering exceptional patient care. That’s why we’ve built a leading provider operations platform to eliminate the administrative bottlenecks that slow healthcare organizations down. By automating licensing, credentialing, payer enrollment, and compliance monitoring, Medallion empowers healthcare operations teams to streamline their workflows, improve provider satisfaction, and accelerate revenue generation, all while ensuring superior patient outcomes. As one of the fastest-growing healthcare technology companies - ranked #3 on Inc. Magazine’s 2024 Fastest-Growing Private Companies in the Pacific Region, #5 on LinkedIn's 2024 Top US Startups, a Glassdoor Best Place to Work in 2024 & 2025, and featured on The Today Show - Medallion is revolutionizing provider network management. Our CEO, Derek Lo, has been named one of the Top 50 Healthcare Technology CEOs of 2024 by The Healthcare Technology Report. Backed by $130M in funding from world-class investors like Sequoia Capital, Google Ventures, Optum Ventures, Salesforce Ventures, Acrew Capital, Washington Harbour, and NFDG, we’re on a mission to transform healthcare at scale. About the role As a Software Engineer, you will work closely with the team on a variety of high-impact projects, shipping production code during your very first week, getting steady exposure to a broad set of technologies, and rapidly taking on more responsibility. Expect to achieve massive personal growth and ship features that make a meaningful impact on the healthcare system. All on a supportive and experienced team of engineers, PMs, and designers. This role reports to one of our Engineering Managers and base compensation for this role may land between $145,000-$175,000. In addition to base salary, Medallion offers equity, and benefits as part of the total compensation package. Many factors are considered when determining pay including: market data, geographic location, skills, qualifications, experience, and level. What you'll do Work on meaningful projects with business impact from your very first day. Scope and lead large projects, addressing ambiguity, creating plans, and ensuring technical excellence Help develop the team roadmap, balancing key technical and product tradeoffs Teach and mentor members of the engineering team, constantly modeling how great software should be developed Work within our tech stack, which includes Python and Django on the backend, and React, JavaScript, and TypeScript on the frontend Write a lot of code :) Qualifications Have 2+ years of experience as a software engineer Have worked in multiple functional areas – frontend, backend, platform, services, data, or cloud infrastructure. Have a strong technical foundation Care deeply about both technical success and product success Are an excellent communicator Get things done You might also have an interest in: Are an excellent communicator Get things done We prioritize candidate safety. Please be aware that official communication will only come from @medallion.co email addresses.