Posting: "Senior GenAI Engineer at Fractal"

About the job Senior GenAI Engineer Fractal Analytics is a strategic AI partner to Fortune 500 companies with a vision to power every human decision in the enterprise. Fractal is building a world where individual choices, freedom, and diversity are the greatest assets. An ecosystem where human imagination is at the heart of every decision. Where no possibility is written off, only challenged to get better. We believe that a true Fractalite empowers imagination with intelligence. And that it will be such Fractalites that will continue to build the company for the next 100 years.Please visit Fractal | Intelligence for Imagination for more information about Fractal.Location: RemoteNote: This Position Is Not Eligible for Immigration Sponsorship at This Time.Looking for a Senior GenAI Engineer with strong hands-on experience in building AI Skills, plugins, and Model Context Protocol (MCP) solutionsKey Responsibilities Work closely with business teams, such as HR executives, to understand their problems, workflows, and requirementsTranslate business requirements into practical AI Skills, plugins, and MCP-based solutionsDesign and build MCP servers, tools, and integrationsDevelop Python-based GenAI applications and APIs Required Experience and Skills Strong proficiency in Python and basic shell scriptingSolid hands-on experience across the GenAI ecosystem, including LLM-based application developmentProven experience building AI Skills, plugins, MCP servers, tools, and integrationsHands-on experience with AI-assisted development tools and environments such as Microsoft Copilot, Claude/Cowork, Codex, and VS CodeExcellent communication and stakeholder-management skills, as the role requires frequent interaction with business teams Pay:The wage range for this role takes into account the wide range of factors that are considered in making compensation decisions including but not limited to skill sets; experience and training; licensure and certifications; and other business and organizational needs. The disclosed range estimate has not been adjusted for the applicable geographic differential associated with the location at which the position may be filled. At Fractal, it is not typical for an individual to be hired at or near the top of the range for their role and compensation decisions are dependent on the facts and circumstances of each case. A reasonable estimate of the current range is: $140,000 - $150,000. In addition, you may be eligible for a discretionary bonus for the current performance period.Benefits:As a full-time employee of the company or as an hourly employee working more than 30 hours per week, you will be eligible to participate in the health, dental, vision, life insurance, and disability plans in accordance with the plan documents, which may be amended from time to time. You will be eligible for benefits on the first day of employment with the Company. In addition, you are eligible to participate in the Company 401(k) Plan after 30 days of employment, in accordance with the applicable plan terms. The Company provides for 11 paid holidays and 12 weeks of Parental Leave. We also follow a “free time” PTO policy, allowing you the flexibility to take time needed for either sick time or vacation.Fractal provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws. Benefits found in job post 401(k) Job Search Smarter with Premium Premium subscribers are 2.7x more likely to get hired on average Randy and millions of other members use Premium Retry Premium on us 1-month free trial. Easy to cancel. We’ll remind you 7 days before your trial ends.