Posting: "Lead Software Engineer - Remote at Optum"

About the job Optum Tech is a global leader in health care innovation. Our teams develop cutting-edge solutions that help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. From advanced data analytics and AI to cybersecurity, we use innovative approaches to solve some of health care's most complex challenges. Your contributions here have the potential to change lives. Ready to build the next breakthrough? Join us to start Caring. Connecting. Growing together. As part of our Optum Health and Financial Technology engineering team, the Lead Software Engineer plays a significant part in designing, implementing, testing, and maintaining software in a systematic method. This engineer will participate in writing software to help deliver on healthcare platform initiatives along with mentoring and leading a team of engineers. With every role at Optum, each position has a requirement for building quality into every output. Design, develop, and deploy next-generation software applications that advances the OCPN Platform capabilities. Build robust, scalable, and high-performance systems using modern engineering practices. Integrate AI/ML techniques to create intelligent features, optimize workflows, and enable data-driven decision-making. Analyze complex technical issues and implement root-cause fixes using AI-assisted and traditional engineering methods. Research, prototype, and adopt emerging technologies to maintain a competitive advantage and accelerate innovation. Collaborate closely with product and business stakeholders to translate strategic goals into engineering solutions. Ensure system reliability, performance, and scalability as the platform grows. Contribute to reducing technical debt through modernization and continuous improvement. Software engineering is the application of engineering to the design, development, implementation, testing and maintenance of software in a systematic method. The roles in this function will cover all primary development activity across all technology functions that ensure we deliver code with high quality for our applications, products and services and to understand customer needs and to develop product roadmaps. These roles include, but are not limited to analysis, design, coding, engineering, testing, debugging, standards, methods, tools analysis, documentation, research and development, maintenance, new development, operations and delivery. With every role in the company, each position has a requirement for building quality into every output. This also includes evaluating new tools, new techniques, strategies; Automation of common tasks; build of common utilities to drive organizational efficiency with a passion around technology and solutions and influence of thought and leadership on future capabilities and opportunities to apply technology in new and innovative ways. You'll enjoy the flexibility to work remotely * from anywhere within the U.S. as you take on some tough challenges. For all hires in the Minneapolis or Washington, D.C. area, you will be required to work in the office a minimum of four days per week. Primary Responsibilities Conduct thorough code reviews to ensure high-quality code Make critical architecture decisions to guide the development of robust and scalable software solutions Define and enforce engineering policies and best practices for design, development, and delivery Collaborate with cross-functional teams to ensure alignment with business goals Stay up-to-date with the latest industry trends and technologies You'll be rewarded and recognized for your performance in an environment that will challenge you and give you clear direction on what it takes to succeed in your role as well as provide development for other roles you may be interested in. Required Qualifications Bachelor's or Master's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or related field 8+ years of software engineering experience 5+ years of modern enterprise technologies such as SAST, Infra, CWP, CSPM, Infrastructure as Code, IAM, DAST, DLP, Data at Rest, AI, Networking, etc. 3+ years of experience with DevOps principles, CI/CD pipelines, and automation tools 2+ years of experience with cloud technologies, Kubernetes, Java, databases, and AI Preferred Qualifications 3+ years of experience managing or leading a software development team 3+ years of experience with Aha, Rally, and GitHub along with an understanding of DevOps 2+ years of experience with DataBricks/Snowflake, Kubernetes, Docker Containers and Azure Cloud technologies All employees working remotely will be required to adhere to UnitedHealth Group's Telecommuter Policy Pay is based on several factors including but not limited to local labor markets, education, work experience, certifications, etc. In addition to your salary, we offer benefits such as, a comprehensive benefits package, incentive and recognition programs, equity stock purchase and 401k contribution (all benefits are subject to eligibility requirements). No matter where or when you begin a career with us, you'll find a far-reaching choice of benefits and incentives. The salary for this role will range from $112,700 - $193,200 annually based on full-time employment. We comply with all minimum wage laws as applicable. Application Deadline: This will be posted for a minimum of 2 business days or until a sufficient candidate pool has been collected. Job posting may come down early due to volume of applicants. At UnitedHealth Group, our mission is to help people live healthier lives and make the health system work better for everyone. We believe everyone-of every race, gender, sexuality, age, location and income-deserves the opportunity to live their healthiest life. Today, however, there are still far too many barriers to good health which are disproportionately experienced by people of color, historically marginalized groups and those with lower incomes. We are committed to mitigating our impact on the environment and enabling and delivering equitable care that addresses health disparities and improves health outcomes - an enterprise priority reflected in our mission. UnitedHealth Group is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer under applicable law and qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, national origin, religion, age, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by local, state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations. UnitedHealth Group is a drug-free workplace. Candidates are required to pass a drug test before beginning employment.