Posting: "Senior Cloud Engineer - Database at Maximus"

About the job Requirements Description & Requirements Maximus is currently seeking a Senior Cloud Engineer - Database . This role will lead the design, implementation, and maintenance of Oracle databases, including installations, upgrades, patching, performance optimization, monitoring, and troubleshooting. The engineer will also support deployments and establish best practices, standards, and procedures for managing databases across AWS cloud environments, leveraging a strong DevOps mindset and modern engineering principles. This role is ideally based in Rancho Cordova, CA, with a preference for local candidates, but is also open to fully remote applicants. Essential Duties and Responsibilities: Implement industry best practices for consistent modularized installation and configuration for production and non-production environments, including self-service options to service teams using a DevOps mindset and principles. Identify cost saving opportunities surrounding compute, storage, and other cloud resources. Troubleshoot, track, and resolve complex database issues, identify recurring problems, and apply fixes. Collaborate with key stakeholders to gather requirements and engineer solutions that meets business needs. Install, configure, and document high availability and business continuity solutions as per business requirements. Implement sound backup and recovery policies and procedures using cloud based backup solutions. Monitor production database systems and proactively mitigate performance and configuration issues. Lead the database deployments, tech upgrades, and approved changes. May provide guidance, coaching, and training to other employees within job area. Job-Specific Essential Duties and Responsibilities: Implement automated methods to perform Oracle installation, cloning, patching, upgrades, and migration. Implement industry best practices for modularized environments using DevOps principles. Collaborate with stakeholders to gather requirements and engineer solutions. Configure high availability and business continuity solutions. Define monitoring requirements and lead proactive improvements. Automate SOPs and maintenance tasks. Act as SME during escalated issues. Support deployments and change management. Troubleshoot and resolve complex database issues. Maintain replication and synchronization. Perform space and capacity planning. Design and maintain backup and recovery procedures. Optimize performance and minimize incidents. Ensure database security and support audits. Research and introduce cloud and AI-enabled technologies. Provide on-call support. Use AI tools for monitoring and root cause analysis. Implement AI-assisted automation for DBA tasks. Support predictive alerting and self-healing systems. Collaborate on AI-enabled applications and data platforms. Minimum Requirements Bachelor's degree in relevant field of study and 5+ years of relevant professional experience required, or equivalent combination of education and experience. Job-Specific Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's degree in related field required. Additional years of relevant experience will be considered in lieu of degree. U.S. citizenship or otherwise legally authorized to work in the United States without sponsorship. 5+ years managing Oracle, MySQL, Postgres databases. 5+ years Oracle eBusiness Suite. 3+ years AWS. 2+ years AWS RDS. Strong AWS expertise. Experience with high availability architectures. Automation skills for DBA functions. Preferred Skills and Qualifications: CloudFormation, Python, Ansible. Splunk experience. Healthcare domain knowledge. Knowledge of AI/ML for database operations. Experience with LLM tools (e.g., AWS Bedrock). AI agents and automation frameworks. Responsible AI and governance understanding. AI integration with DevOps. AI for performance and cost optimization. EEO Statement Maximus is an equal opportunity employer. We evaluate qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, disability, veteran status, genetic information and other legally protected characteristics. Pay Transparency Maximus compensation is based on various factors including but not limited to job location, a candidate's education, training, experience, expected quality and quantity of work, required travel (if any), external market and internal value analysis including seniority and merit systems, as well as internal pay alignment. Annual salary is just one component of Maximus's total compensation package. Other rewards may include short- and long-term incentives as well as program-specific awards. Additionally, Maximus provides a variety of benefits to employees, including health insurance coverage, life and disability insurance, a retirement savings plan, paid holidays and paid time off. Compensation ranges may differ based on contract value but will be commensurate with job duties and relevant work experience. An applicant's salary history will not be used in determining compensation. Maximus will comply with regulatory minimum wage rates and exempt salary thresholds in all instances. Accommodations Maximus provides reasonable accommodations to individuals requiring assistance during any phase of the employment process due to a disability, medical condition, or physical or mental impairment. If you require assistance at any stage of the employment process—including accessing job postings, completing assessments, or participating in interviews,—please contact People Operations at applicantaccom@maximus.com . Minimum Salary $ 130,000.00 Maximum Salary $ 160,000.00