Posting: "Advisory Engineer, AI Security at Lenovo"

About the job We are Lenovo. We do what we say. We own what we do. We WOW our customers. Lenovo is a US$83 billion revenue global technology powerhouse, ranked #196 in the Fortune Global 500, and serving millions of customers every day in 180 markets. Focused on a bold vision to deliver Smarter Technology for All, Lenovo has built on its success as the world’s largest PC company with a full-stack portfolio of AI-enabled, AI-ready, and AI-optimized devices (PCs, workstations, smartphones, tablets), infrastructure (server, storage, edge, high performance computing and software defined infrastructure), software, solutions, and services. Lenovo’s continued investment in world-changing innovation is building a more equitable, trustworthy, and smarter future for everyone, everywhere. Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange under Lenovo Group Limited (HKSE: 992) (ADR: LNVGY). This transformation together with Lenovo’s world-changing innovation is building a more inclusive, trustworthy, and smarter future for everyone, everywhere. To find out more visit www.lenovo.com , and read about the latest news via our StoryHub . This new position joins Lenovo's AI Governance and Product Security organization within the Chief AI Office in our mission of enabling security and trust in Lenovo's use of AI technology in product development through Responsible AI. The AI Governance and Product Security Office works across all Lenovo's business and product areas to ensure AI tools are used in accordance with Company standards and international regulations and products are developed and implemented with industry best practices for security. In partnership with AI and security leaders across Lenovo, the Advisory Engineer, AI Security will lead the development of technical standards, governance, security reviews, threat intelligence, and the integration and operationalization of enterprise security capabilities for AI models and development tools used globally across both customer and internal projects. This person must be a strategic thinker and strong collaborator with both leadership capability and deep technical expertise in AI security. The candidate should understand AI technologies, including LLM architectures and associated vulnerabilities, attack vectors, and remediation strategies across AI models and platforms. Hands-on experience designing security architectures and integrating AI systems with enterprise security tools across cloud environments, APIs, and data pipelines is essential. A passion for AI, technology and engineering excellence is critical, with a strong belief that security is built through people, process, and scalable technology. Key Responsibilities Design, implement, and maintain technical controls and assessment methodologies for Large Language Models and AI development tools and platforms Lead the requirements, vetting, and management of third-party and first-party AI security tools deployed within the development environment Develop and maintain technical security standards, documentation, and reporting for the Chief AI Office Close collaboration with the CSO AI Security and Responsible AI teams on developing and delivering end-to-end security reviews and monitoring capabilities for AI Hands-on experience integrating enterprise security tools into cloud or development environments Participate in incident response and product security operations as needed Support the CSO IT Security and business unit security teams in the deployment of AI-driven security technologies Ensure the AI model and systems security programs are robust, effective, and aligned with Product and Services Security Program requirements Occasional domestic and international travel (approx. 5-20%) for meetings and collaboration Qualifications 2+ years of experience in security analysis, implementation, management of AI systems, including LLMs and development platforms Experience in threat analysis and risk mitigation of AI models within the product or systems development lifecycle, including incident response best practices Familiar with the application scenarios and basic principles of AI technologies Familiarity with API-based security integrations, automation, and orchestration in modern security architectures Experienced in deployment, configuration, and management of network-based security detection and response tools Ability to participate in incident response and product security operations as required Deep understanding of AI and development trends of the AI industry Strong collaboration skills to work effectively with cross-functional teams, including IT Security and business unit product development teams, on AI-driven security initiatives Basic Requirements Bachelor's degree in computer science, artificial intelligence, data science, software engineering, mathematics, or equivalent experience 8+ years of experience in IT or product security We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and do not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, sex, age, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, status as a veteran, and basis of disability or any federal, state, or local protected class.